In the last video, you saw how
a neural network works in a
demand prediction example.
Let's take a look at how you
can apply a similar type of
idea to computer vision
application. Let's dive in.
If you're building a face
recognition application,
you might want to train
a neural network that takes
as input a picture like
this and outputs the identity
of the person in the picture.
This image is 1,000
by 1,000 pixels.
Its representation
in the computer is
actually as 1,000 by 1,000 grid,
or also called 1,000 by 1,000
matrix of pixel
intensity values.
In this example, my
pixel intensity values
or pixel brightness values,
goes from 0-255 and so
197 here would be
the brightness of the pixel
in the very upper
left of the image,
185 is brightness of the
pixel, one pixel over,
and so on down to
214 would be the lower
right corner of this image.
If you were to take
these pixel intensity values
and unroll them into a vector,
you end up with a
list or a vector
of a million pixel
intensity values.
One million because 1,000 by
1,000 square gives you
a million numbers.
The face recognition problem is,
can you train a neural network
that takes as input a
feature vector with
a million pixel
brightness values
and outputs the identity of
the person in the picture.
This is how you might build
a neural network to
carry out this task.
The input image X is fed
to this layer of neurons.
This is the first hidden layer,
which then extract
some features.
The output of this
first hidden layer is
fed to a second hidden layer and
that output is fed to
a third layer and then
finally to the output layer,
which then estimates,
say the probability of this
being a particular person.
One interesting
thing would be if
you look at a neural network
that's been trained on
a lot of images of
faces and to try to
visualize what are
these hidden layers,
trying to compute.
It turns out that when you
train a system like this
on a lot of pictures
of faces and you peer at
the different neurons
in the hidden layers
to figure out what they may be
computing this is
what you might find.
In the first hidden layer,
you might find one
neuron that is looking
for the low vertical line or
a vertical edge like that.
A second neuron looking for
a oriented line or
oriented edge like that.
The third neuron
looking for a line
at that orientation, and so on.
In the earliest layers
of a neural network,
you might find that the
neurons are looking for
very short lines or very
short edges in the image.
If you look at the
next hidden layer,
you find that these neurons
might learn to group together
lots of little short lines and
little short edge segments in
order to look for
parts of faces.
For example, each of these
little square boxes is
a visualization of what that
neuron is trying to detect.
This first neuron
looks like it's
trying to detect the presence or
absence of an eye in a certain
position of the image.
The second neuron,
looks like it's trying
to detect like a corner of
a nose and maybe
this neuron over
here is trying to detect
the bottom of an ear.
Then as you look
at the next hidden
layer in this example,
the neural network
is aggregating
different parts of faces to then
try to detect presence
or absence of
larger, coarser face shapes.
Then finally, detecting how much
the face corresponds to
different face shapes creates
a rich set of features
that then helps
the output layer try to
determine the identity
of the person picture.
A remarkable thing about
the neural network
is you can learn
these feature detectors at
the different hidden
layers all by itself.
In this example, no
one ever told it to
look for short little
edges in the first layer,
and eyes and noses
and face parts in
the second layer and then more
complete face shapes
at the third layer.
The neural network is able
to figure out these things
all by itself from data.
Just one note, in
this visualization,
the neurons in the
first hidden layer
are shown looking at
relatively small windows
to look for these edges.
In the second hidden layer
is looking at bigger window,
and the third hidden layer is
looking at even bigger window.
These little neurons
visualizations
actually correspond
to differently
sized regions in the image.
Just for fun, let's see
what happens if you were to
train this neural network
on a different dataset,
say on lots of pictures of cars,
picture on the side.
The same learning algorithm
is asked to detect cars,
will then learn edges
in the first layer.
Pretty similar but then they'll
learn to detect parts of cars in
the second hidden
layer and then more
complete car shapes in
the third hidden layer.
Just by feeding it
different data,
the neural network
automatically learns to detect
very different features
so as to try to
make the predictions
of car detection or
person recognition
or whether there's a
particular given task
that is trained on.
That's how a neural
network works
for computer vision application.
In fact, later this week,
you'll see how you can build
a neural network
yourself and apply
it to a handwritten digit
recognition application.
So far we've been going
over the description of
intuitions of neural networks
to give you a feel
for how they work.
In the next video,
let's look more deeply into
the concrete mathematics and
a concrete implementation
of details of how you
actually build one or more
layers of a neural network,
and therefore how
you can implement
one of these things yourself.
Let's go on to the next video.